# 02. Fixed vs Relative units

## Motivation

A current accessibility recommendation is to create websites using relative sizes instead of absolute sizes. This allows content to be readable in different sizes based on the user preferences.

The relative units `rem` and `em` are the best replacers of `px`. An `em` is a unit of typography, relative to the font-size of its nearest parent. `rem` is only relative the the html (root) `font-size`.

The default `font-size` in almost every browser is `16px`. Assuming that, we can say that **`1rem = 16px`**.

```css
.heading-1 {
  font-size: 1.75rem; /* 28px / 16 */
}
```

## Exercise

Let's make sure that the page selling Monstera Deliciosas respects the users `font-size` preferences.

**🎯 Goal:** Replace fixed units (`px`) by relative units (`rem`).

**Tip 1:** Customize your browser font size to see how the page reacts as you update the code from absolute to relative units. Go to _Settings > Appearance > Font Size_. (Chrome and Firefox)

**Tip 2:** When converting `px` to `rem` remember to do the math `x/16` where `x` is the pixel value. ex: `24px/16 = 1.5rem`

---

## Bonus

Did you finish it on time? Don't stop now, here's some extra challenges for you:

### #1 Easier ratio: 1rem = 10px

Doing the math `x/16` can me painful when dealing with certain numbers such as 15px (0.9375rem). You may wonder: _Why can't 1rem equal 10px?_ Well, there's a way! Let's set the HTML (root) font-size to 62.5%. It works because 62.5% of 16px is 10px. Now can do the direct math `1rem === 10px`.

```css
html {
  font-size: 62.5%;
}

body {
  font-size: 1.6rem; /* 16px */
}

.heading-1 {
  /* font-size: 28px; */ /* ---- old way */
  /* font-size: 1.75rem; */
  font-size: 2.8rem; /* -------- new way! */
}
```

## Notes & References

- [Why you shouldn't "just use pixels"](https://engageinteractive.co.uk/blog/em-vs-rem-vs-px)
- [PX, EM or REM in Media Queries?](https://zellwk.com/blog/media-query-units/)
- [Criterion 1.1.4 - "Resize Text" 1.1.4](https://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20161007/visual-audio-contrast-scale.html): Using px units on any text will fail WCAG level AA
