# 2.3. Navigation Shortcuts

## Introduction

Let's talk about the websites with a lot of links at the top of the page before the actual main content.

The keyboard-only users are forced to tab through every single link before they can reach the main content. We, as web creators, can make better than that, right?

A common way to bypass this is to create "Skip Navigation Links". The basic concept involves two elements: A _trigger_ and a _target_.

```html
<!-- Trigger: a link pointing to an #id -->
<a href="#main" class="skipLink">Skip to main content</a>

<!-- Target: A part of the page with the same id -->
<main id="main">...</main>
```

We can visually hide the skip links by default and only show it when focused.

```css
.skipLink:not(:focus) {
  /* hide visually the link using .sr-only styles */
  position: absolute;
  width: 1px;
  height: 1px;
  /* rest of .sr-only styles... */
}

.skipLink:focus {
  /* link styles when it's focused */
}
```

This skip link must be one of the first elements in the DOM to be quickly accessed through the keyboard.

## Exercise

In the [exercise page](../exercises/2.3.html),
let's create a "Skip Navigation" link to jump directly to the main section of the page.

**🎯 Goal:** Create navigation shortcuts through the page.

## Bonus

### #1 Target styling

When creating skip links using id `#`, we can style using the CSS pseudo-selector [`:target`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:target).

**🎯 Goal:** Use `:target` to style the main area when it's focused.

Limitation: With this approach, you'll notice the target animation only works once. Because the `#main` selector is added to the page URL, when triggered again it will be ignored, unless the URL no longer contains that selector. To overcome this, JS would be required.

## Further reading

- [Skip Navigation Links](https://webaim.org/techniques/skipnav/)

### WCAG Success Criterion

- [WCAG 2.4.1 Bypass Blocks - Level A](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#bypass-blocks)
