# 3.4. Meaningful content - extras

## Introduction

Until now, we have been exploring fairly simple cases, but let me tell you something:

When it comes to accessibility, there isn't one single right way to do most of stuff. Once you find a solution, look for other solutions.

Each approach has positive and negative consequences. We should **aim for understanding their impacts and assume the trade-offs** rather than pretending they don't exist.

## Exercise

In the [exercise page](../exercises/3.4.html),
there are a few more common cases not accessible.

Each case might have multiple solutions. For that reason, you won't find a "direct" suggestion/solution like on the exercises before.

**🎯 Goal:** Improve the accessibility of each case.

**Suggestion for QA & designers:**
This issues might require a good chunk of CSS and JS. If you don't feel comfortable with it, it's totally okay.
As an alternative, I suggest you to write down the Acceptance Criteira / requirements: A list of things that
are not write and needed to be changed.

## 🍀 Hints

I encourage you to study each case and come up with your own audits. Below you can find some hints and _food for thought_ about each case.

### Lesson #1 - Lists

Visually, it's perceivable which list item is the current one,
however that's not true for blind people. Perhaps, there's some [ARIA attribute](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#state_prop_def) that reflects the _current_ state.

#### References

- [Marking the current element in a list](https://tink.uk/using-the-aria-current-attribute/): Note: Chrome doesn't support it yet, but Firefox and Safari do.

---

### Lesson #2 - Clickable cards

You notice the cards are totally clicable - with touch, mouse and keyboard. Here's some things for you to consider:

Try read it with screen reader....

- If you jump directly to the title and keep reading, you won't notice the video category/date.
- Does the date announcement sounds right?
- Try to highlight the card text. (eg select and copy the title). Could you do it?

#### References

- [Link in header? Or header in link?](https://css-tricks.com/link-header-header-link/)
- [Block links: The search for a perfect solution](https://css-tricks.com/block-links-the-search-for-a-perfect-solution/)

---

### Lesson #3 - Custom select

A custom accessible select is one of the hardest things to create.

Among many studies (read references bellwo) around selects, I can give you the short answer: **Avoid selectors if you can**. But let’s face reality: a custom select is still our best solution sometimes.

There's a relative simple technique to enhance these custom selects. I personally named this a _"hybrid select"_. It consists of 2 selects:

- A native select, visible and accessible by default
- A custom select, hidden until it’s safe to be interacted with a mouse

The trick is to show each one at the right moment:

```css
/* show the custom select only on devices with hovers (aka mouse) */

.selectCustom {
  display: none;
}
@media (hover: hover) {
  .selectCustom {
    display: block;
  }

  /* In a computer, but using the keyboard?
  Then hide the custom select when the native is focused: */
  .selectNative:focus + .selectCustom {
    display: none;
  }
}
```

**Important:** This still has A11Y issues. It's a partial solution of a bigger ["hybrid select" experiment](https://css-tricks.com/striking-a-balance-between-native-and-custom-select-elements/). If you use this in the future, please take into considerations its limitations.

#### References

- [Striking a Balance Between Native and Custom Select Elements](https://css-tricks.com/striking-a-balance-between-native-and-custom-select-elements/)
- [Graceful degradation vs Progressive enhancement](https://www.w3.org/wiki/Graceful_degradation_versus_progressive_enhancement)

---

### Lesson #4 - Toggle Buttons

Some questions for you to think about:

- What makes a button, a button?
- What's the difference between a button and an input checkbox/radio?
- When you interact with these elements, do you expect the action to be taken immediately, or not?

Give it some thought...

<details>
<summary>Tips about dynamic names and states</summary>

When we interact with "Sound toggle" using a screen reader, two things happen when pressing it:

- The button label changes
- The `aria-pressed` values changes.

For a screen reader, changing both _name_ and _status_ can be confusing when the toggle is not active.

- Voice Over: _selected, Sound on, toggle button_
- Voice Over: _unselected, Sound off, toggle button_

If the "sound off" is "unselected", it means the sound is actually turned on. Confusing right?

Here's an example, much clear for screen readers:

- Voice Over: _selected, Enable sound, toggle button_
- Voice Over: _unselected, Enable sound, toggle button_

🍀 When labeling dynamic elements, never change both label and state at the same time. Stick with one of them.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Tips about moment of actions</summary>

One of the differences between a form control and a button is:

- Form controls (e.g. inputs) are meant to receive and carry a value. These values are editable and should not take effect until we explicit submit them.
- Buttons are expected to take immediate action upon activation.

That's the main question we should ask ourselves when building an interactive element:

- Does the selection, takes immediate effect? Then, it's a button.
- Does the selection requires confirmation? Then it's a form control.

🍀 The way a funcionality is presented might misslead us to change its foundations. We need to be mindful about this thin layer between UX and semantics.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Tips about keyboard navigation</summary>

Although `Tab` is the main way to navigate between interactive elements, it's not the only one. In some cases the navigation is done with arrow keys (e.g `<select>` and `<input>` radio/checkboxes). We can even create our custom shortcuts.

We might ask: When to use Tabs or Arrow Keys?

The [WAI keyboard guidelines](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#kbd_shortcuts) are extended and a continuos work in progress. This is my current simplified decision tree:

- Skip Tabs to make navigation more efficient. (Google Drive is a great example)
- Use Arrow keys when elements are directly related (eg a toolbox,a breadcrumb)
- When using Arrow keys, highligh visually the parent element, for a clear understanding of the context and related elements.
- The direction mechanism to move between elements depends on the context. `aria-describedby` with instructions can be helpful for blind people.

</details>

#### References

- [Inclussive Toggle Buttons](https://inclusive-components.design/toggle-button/)
- [Design pattern: Toolbar](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/examples/toolbar/toolbar.html)
- [Choosing appropriate navigation/shortcut behavior](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#kbd_shortcuts_design_choose_behavior)

---

### Lesson #5 - Loading states

_TODO: Coming..._

#### References

---

### Lesson #6 - Tooltips

_TODO: Coming..._

#### References
