# 4.2. On-demand changes

## Introduction

Nowadays it's very common to interact with pieces of UI where the content changes immediately after we click on it.

For example, the "like button" or "toggle dark theme". This is an action that happens immediately, without a middle step to confirm that action. That's the opposite of a traditional form submit.

Should that affect how we use/create those interfaces? Let's explore...

## Exercise

In the [exercise page](../exercises/4.2.html),
there is a layout with a few "toggle settings" that are applied immediately after change (without a submit button).

Visually, it's perceiveable the options available before we click (activate) them. What about people who use only the keyboard or a screen reader?

**🎯 Goal:** Improve the accessibility of each setting.

**Note:** Each case might have multiple solutions. It's totally okay if your own solution is different from the one proposed.

**Suggestion for QA & designers:**  
This exercise will require a good chunk of code changes. It's totally fine if you don't feel comfortable with it.  
As an alternative, I suggest you to write down a list of the things that need to be improved, and, perhaps pair up with your group to collaborate together!

<details>
<summary>🍀 Tips about moments of actions</summary>

One of the differences between a form control and a button is:

- Form controls (e.g. inputs) are meant to receive and carry a value. These values are editable and should not take effect until we explicit submit them.
- Buttons are expected to take immediate action upon activation.

That's the main question we should ask ourselves when building an interactive element:

- Does the selection, takes immediate effect? Then, it's a button.
- Does the selection requires confirmation? Then it's a form control.

🍀 The way a funcionality is presented might misslead us to change its foundations. We need to be mindful about this thin layer between UX and semantics.

</details>

<details>
<summary>🍀 Tips about dynamic names and states</summary>

When we interact with "Sound toggle" using a screen reader, two things happen when pressing it:

- The button label changes
- The `aria-pressed` values changes.

For a screen reader, changing both _name_ and _status_ can be confusing when the toggle is not active.

- Voice Over: _selected, Sound on, toggle button_
- Voice Over: _unselected, Sound off, toggle button_

If the "sound off" is "unselected", it means the sound is actually turned on. Confusing right?

Here's an example, much clear for screen readers:

- Voice Over: _selected, Enable sound, toggle button_
- Voice Over: _unselected, Enable sound, toggle button_

🍀 When labeling dynamic elements, never change both label and state at the same time. Stick with one of them.

</details>

<details>
<summary>🍀 Tips about keyboard navigation</summary>

Although `Tab` is the main way to navigate between interactive elements, it's not the only one. In some cases the navigation is done with arrow keys (e.g `<select>` and `<input>` radio/checkboxes). We can even create our custom shortcuts.

We might ask: When to use Tabs or Arrow Keys?

The [WAI keyboard guidelines](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#kbd_shortcuts) are extended and a continuous work in progress. This is my current simplified decision tree:

- Skip Tabs to make navigation more efficient. (Google Drive is a great example)
- Use Arrow keys when elements are directly related (eg a toolbox,a breadcrumb)
- When using Arrow keys, highligh visually the parent element, for a clear understanding of the context and related elements.
- The direction mechanism to move between elements depends on the context. `aria-describedby` with instructions can be helpful for blind people.

</details>

## Further reading

- [Inclusive Toggle Buttons](https://inclusive-components.design/toggle-button/)
- [Switch vs Checkbox](https://uxmovement.com/buttons/when-to-use-a-switch-or-checkbox/)
- [Design pattern: Toolbar](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#toolbar)
- [Choosing appropriate navigation/shortcut behavior](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#kbd_shortcuts_design_choose_behavior)

## Exercise takeaways

<details>
<summary>(After the exercise) Reveal takeaways</summary>

- An element tag must be decided based on its purpose and functions, rather than its visual appearance.
- Aim to always test your interactive UI with a keyboard and Screen Reader.
- When in doubt, leave it as it is instead of over-engine_ARIA_ng. Ask your colleagues or StackOverflow. [Educate yourself, before taking ableist decisions](https://yatil.net/blog/no-accessibility-without-disabilities).
</details>
