# 1.a Semantic HTML

## Motivation

Web standards are rules and guidelines used to promote code consistency when building a web page. We should follow these standards so that anyone (people and robots) can access and understand a webpage content properly, in a meaningful way.

One of the Web standards is to write semantic HTML markup: Go beyond `<div />` and `<span>` (non-semantic elements) and replace them by [semantics elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element). Use them where it makes sense: to describe sections, text, media, and so on. This way, we are not only writing **readable code**, but we also making the a more **accessible place**.

## Exercise

Your colleague implemented a page and the designer approved it because it looks as expected!
However, under the hood, if we see the page naked (without CSS styles), it doesn't
make much sense. People who read this page through a [Screen Reader](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Screen_reader) won't understand it properly.

**🎯 Goal:** Improve the HTML by using semantic elements.

**Tip:** You can start by removing the styles and try to read the page as if it was a book. Plain old text. Improve the HTML until this book makes sense to you.

## Bonus

Did you finish it on time? Don't stop now, here's some extra challenges for you:

### 1. Order of content

In a book, the title is always the first thing to show up. However, in this page, the tag "Limited edition" appears before the title. Your goal is to _reorder the HTML elements_ so the title and the tag appear on the correct order. But the design should not change! How can we do it? Perhaps some flexbox trick can help us to _reverse the order_ visually?

### 2. Missing content

In this page we can visually understand that the plant is on sale ($40 to $30). However, if we see the page naked (without styles), it doesn't make much sense. We see 2 amounts but we don't know the difference between them. Some people may not even understand that's the plant price! Your goal is to add the missing words and hide them visually when the page is displayed with styles.

```html
<span class="visually-hidden">Price:</span>
```

**Tip:** What CSS will you use at `.visually-hidden`? There are [better ways to hide content](https://a11yproject.com/posts/how-to-hide-content/), than using `display: none;`!

## Notes

**Did you know?** There's a global [CSS naked day](https://css-naked-day.github.io/) on April 9. In this day, developers release their websites without styles, showing only the HTML behind it. The idea behind this event is to promote Web Standards. This includes proper use of HTML, semantic markup, a good hierarchy structure, and of course, a good old play on words.
