# Interactive elements

## Introduction

Keyboard accessibility is one of the most important aspects of web accessibility. Many users, especially people with motor disabilities and blind people rely on a keyboard to navigate through the web. These people need an **accessible focus indicators** to enjoy the web.

A very common practice is to hide the default focus indicator [because it's ugly](../assets/imgs/browser-focus.png) and [different across browsers](https://allyjs.io/tests/focus-outline-styles/#style=focus&key=text,radio,checkbox,textarea,button,link,div&browser=firefox,chrome,safari,ie11). And that's okay. The mistake is to not provide a proper focus state. **We must include accessible focus states on our design.**

```css
button:focus {
  /* It's okay to do this... */
  outline: none;

  /* ...if we build a custom indicator */
  box-shadow: 0 0 0.3rem 0.3rem tomato;
}
```

## Exercise

In this page, we have a bunch of interactive elements: links, buttons and form controls. However, we can't easily access them through keyboard.

**🎯 Goal:** Make all interactive elements accessible by keyboard.

We don't have any explicit design here, so let's have some free style.
Adding some opacity, change the button color or border are common design patterns.

## Bonus

### #1 Custom interactive elements

Creating a custom accessible element sometimes is a (very) hard challenge.
Go try to select "Your role" using only the keyboard and then come back here.

That was an impossible mission, right? There's a trick to avoid the
complex task of re-creating an a11y `<select>`. It involves CSS!

The trick is to have 2 selects and show them on the right moment. A custom one visible by default for "mouse based" users and a native one hidden until it's focused by keyboard.

```css
/* visually hide selectNative  */
.selectNative {
  opacity: 0;
}

/* show it on focus  */
.selectNative:focus {
  opacity: 1;
}

/* hide selectCustom on selectNative:focus  */
.selectNative:focus + .selectCustom {
  display: none;
}
```

**🎯 Goal:** Create a simpler `select` accessible version

This technique is what it's called _graceful degradation technique_. Add a fallback version when the ideal does not work. This experience is not as good, but it still delivers the essential functionality for everyone. **Things won't break for anyone**.

### #2 Focus only when using keyboard

The main reason to hide the focus indicator is because it's triggered when we click the element. What if we could activate `:focus` only when using the keyboard and ignore it when using the mouse? That's where [`:focus-visible`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible) comes in!

Most browsers do not support it yet, but there is a tiny polyfill: [focus-visible.js](https://github.com/WICG/focus-visible)

**🎯 Goal:** Add `focus-visible` and update buttons and anchor `:focus` styles to use it.

```html
<!-- Include the polyfill at the bottom of the page -->
<script src="../assets/polyfill-focus-visible.js"></script>
```

```css
/* hide the focus indicator always */
.js-focus-visible button:focus {
  outline: none;
}

/* show the focus only with keyboard */
.js-focus-visible button:focus.focus-visible {
  outline: none;
  box-shadow: 0 0 0.3rem 0.3rem tomato;
}
```

## Notes

- [A complete guide to links and buttons](https://css-tricks.com/a-complete-guide-to-links-and-buttons/)
- [Graceful degradation vs Progressive enhancement](https://www.w3.org/wiki/Graceful_degradation_versus_progressive_enhancement)
- [`focus-visible` MDN spec](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible)
- [Why input fields always have focus-visible](https://github.com/WICG/focus-visible/issues/131)
